<!--
    author: ahriman / Ben Morrison
    title: Dungeon Crawl Stone Soup
    description: playing DCSS on the tildeverse server
-->

<h2>Dungeon Crawl Stone Soup</h2>

<p>DCSS is a fun roguelike game that is now available on a
 tildeverse server for your enjoyment. There are two ways to
 play: via WebTiles for simple 2d graphics and via SSH for
 a more traditional ascii interface.</p>

 <p>CTVO: <a href="https://crawl.tildeverse.org">https://crawl.tildeverse.org</a></p>

<p>If you already have an account on tilde.institute, you can
 play via the ascii interface by issuing the command <code>dcss</code>.
 This will automatically connect to the server and present the
 login/registration menu.</p>

<p>Some users prefer graphics. For webtiles, it will be necessary
 to go to <a href="https://crawl.tildeverse.org">https://crawl.tildeverse.org</a>.
 Click "PLAY" to open the WebTiles interface.</p>

<h3>Recorded Games</h3>

<p>All games on CTVO (the tildeverse crawl server) are recorded for
 later playback. In order to review a previously recorded game,
 navigate to <a href="https://crawl.tildeverse.org/ttyrec">the ttyrec directory</a>,
 select a username, and download the ttyrec file. You'll need to
 have the ttyrec package installed in order to review them. Issue:
 <code>ttyplay file.ttyrec</code> and watch as your terminal
 automagically transforms into a recorded DCSS game.</p>

<p>ttyplay is installed on tilde.institute, so feel free to download
 a game to your home directory and watch it from there.</p>

<h3>Morgue Files</h3>

<p>Want to see the run-down of a game? Check out the morgue file
 for it. They're sorted into username directories at:
 <a href="https://crawl.tildeverse.org/morgue">https://crawl.tildeverse.org/morgue</a>.
 Each morgue file contains information such as how you died, your stats,
 an account of monsters vanquished, among other stuff.</p>

<a href="/wiki">Back to Wiki</a>
