<!--
    author: tomasino
    title: Getting Started With Gopher Using burrow
    description: gopherhole management tutorial using the burrow tool
-->

<h2>Getting Started With Gopher Using burrow</h2>

<p>To create a gopher hole on tilde.institute, a user can easily get started
by doing the following:</p>

<p>1) Create the gopher directory</p>

<div class="code">$ mkdir public_gopher</div>

<p>2) Create a root gophermap</p>

<div class="code">$ burrow gophermap</div>

<p>Gophernicus will interpret any text you add here as information
lines unless they begin with one of gophernicus' special characters
or contains a tab. As a general rule, don't use tabs unless you're
intentionally linking something.</p>

<p>Add a cool header to the file (check out <code>figlet</code>!), then somewhere near the top, paste:</p>

<div class="code" style="text-align:center">==== Last Updated: February 19th, 2019 ====</div>

<p>The date doesn't matter, really. Whenever you "phlog" with burrow it will
update the date for you. How sweet is that?</p>

<p>Now lets add a link to your phlog that you're totally going to have:</p>

<div class="code">1phlog[tab]phlog</div>

<p>That [tab] should be a literal tab, though. Make sure your editor doesn't
convert it to spaces. Now, save and quit the editor.</p>

<p>3) Create a phlog directory</p>

<div class="code">$ mkdir ~/public_gopher/phlog</div>

<p>4) Now create a new phlog with burrow</p>

<div class="code">$ burrow phlog</div>

<p>You'll be prompted for a title. If you hit enter and give no title then
burrow will abort.</p>

<p>Once you hit enter after giving your title a temporary file will open in
your default $EDITOR. Don't like that editor? Be sure to change your
environment var!</p>

<p>If you quit your phlog file without saving the post is aborted. If you
save and quit, it will create a new phlog entry, add it to your phlog
gophermap that now exists, and update the date on your root gophermap.
That's it!</p>

<p>You have an RSS file sitting in the root of your gopher hole at rss.xml.
It will automatically generate when you phlog, like a winner. You can edit
your root gophermap at any time by using burrow's gophermap action. If you
create other folders and gophermaps in the future you can use burrow's
gophermap function to target them. For instance, to open the phlog
listings you would:</p>

<div class="code">$ burrow gophermap /phlog</div>

<p>Editing gophermaps with burrow will ensure they're always saved and
formatted properly! Any other files are just text, so open them directly with your editor of
choice.</p>

<p>That's it! Happy gophering.</p>

<p>~tomasino</p>
